doc: add batch coprocessor rfc (#39362)
pingcap/tidb: docs/design/2022-11-23-batch-cop.md

1. Each task requires a single RPC request, there could be too many tasks or RPC requests though each 
request just fetches a few rows.
2. Increasing task numbers may lead to more queueing, and tuning the concurrency parameters or task scheduling 
policies is difficult, so it’s difficult to get the best performance.

In the current coprocessor implementation, key ranges in the same region would be batched in a single 
task(there is an 25000 upper limit which is hard coded), so how about batching all the cop tasks which would 
be sent to the same store?

In a user situation, the index range scan returns 4000000 rows, and finally 400000 coprocessor table-lookup 
tasks are generated, which means the key ranges are scattered in different regions.

## Optimization

### The IndexLookUp Execution Review

Usually, the IndexLookUp executor may have an index worker which tries to read index keys and handles 
according to the index filter conditions. Each time it fetches enough handle data, it would create a 
coprocessor table task and send it to the table workers. The handle data size limit could be configured 

> by the [tidb_index_lookup_size](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/dev/system-variables#tidb_index_lookup_size) 

Reviewer: Use English link instead: https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/system-variables#tidb_index_lookup_size

system variable.

> When the table worker gets a coprocessor task, it would split the handle ranges according to the region 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the table worker gets a coprocessor task, it would split the handle ranges according to the region 
```

information from the region cache. Then these region-aware tasks are processed by the coprocessor client 
which has a default concurrency limit configured by the [tidb_distsql_scan_concurrency](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/system-variables#tidb_distsql_scan_concurrency) system 
variable.

### Batching Strategy

As coprocessor streaming is already deprecated, bringing it back may not be a good idea. To make the design 
simple, we could just do the batching for each coprocessor table task separately. Different coprocessor table 
tasks may still require different RPC requests, while row handle ranges within one task could be batched if 
their region leaders are in the same store. The main idea is trying to batch sending the tasks using one 
RPC for each original `copTask` if the row handle range-related region leaders are located in the same tikv store.

> With the batching optimization, each table lookup task processing may need at most as many as RPC number of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the batching optimization, the number of RPC requests may be at most as many as the number of store nodes for each table lookup task
```

> the store nodes. Consider a limit case, if the index scan returns 4000000 rows and each task range is one row

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Consider an extreme case, if the index scan returns 4000000 rows and each task range is one row
```

, there could be as many as `4000000/25000=160` table lookup tasks each containg 25000 key ranges. But now the RPC number
would become at most `160 * store_numbers`, for example if store_number is 10, the total request number is
1600 which is much less than the previous 400000.

### Proto Change

The RegionInfo is already added by the tiflash batch coprocessor implementation. It contains information about
the task region and related key ranges.

```protobuf
message RegionInfo {
    uint64 region_id = 1;
    metapb.RegionEpoch region_epoch = 2;
    repeated KeyRange ranges = 3;
}
```

Attach the batched tasks into the `Corprocessor` request. Reuse the `RegionInfo` mentioned above to store tasks
in different regions but the same store.
```protobuf
message Request {
    …

    // Store the batched tasks belonging to other regions.

>     repeated region_tasks = 11;

Reviewer 3: The repeated type is missing.

}
```

Add batched task results in `Response`, different tasks may encounter different kinds of errors, collect them
together.
```protobuf
message Response {
   …
   // The returned region error handling batch tasks.

>    repeated errorpb.Error region_errors = 13;

Reviewer 3: Need to collect errors with region id or task info. e.g., 100 region tasks request got 2 errors(the first and last), we need to tell TiDB which tasks need to be retried.

   // The other errors handling batch tasks.
   repeated string other_errors = 14;
}
```

### The TiDB Side

Adding a flag in `kv.Request` to indicate if the batch strategy is enabled or not.
```golang
type Request struct {
    …
    // EnableStoreBatch indicates if the tasks are batched.
    EnableStoreBatch bool
}
```

> Adding batch task related fields in `corp.copTask`. They would be collected when the `copTask` is being

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding batch task related fields in `copr.copTask`. They would be collected when the `copTask` is being
```

prepared and the store batch is enabled.
```golang
type copTask struct {
    …
    //
    batchTaskList []kvproto.Coprocessor.RegionInfo
}
```

When building coprocessor tasks in the `buildCopTasks` function, try to fill the `batchTaskList` if
necessary.The steps are:
1. Creating a map to record `store address => *copTask`.If store batch is enabled, tasks would be appended
to existing `copTask` when the store address is the same.

> 2. Split the ranges according to the region information as usual. After this, all the tasks are correspond

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Split the ranges according to the region information as usual. After this, all the tasks correspond
```

to a single region.
3. When processing a new `KeyLocation`, try to append it as the batch task to the existing coprocessor task 
if possible.

The coprocessor client just sends the tasks as usual, the `Coprocessor` request is still a unary RPC 
request though it may be batched. When handling `CopResponse`, if the batch path is enabled and 
there are region errors or other errors processing batch tasks, rescheduling the cop tasks or 
reporting errors to the upper layer. 

> Note if the `keepOrder` is quired, the partial query result could not be sent back until all the reads 

Reviewer: "required"?

Adding a flag in `kv.Request` to indicate if the batch strategy is enabled or not.
```golang
type Request struct {
    …
    // EnableStoreBatch indicates if the tasks are batched.
    EnableStoreBatch bool
}
```

Adding batch task related fields in `copr.copTask`. They would be collected when the `copTask` is being
prepared and the store batch is enabled.
```golang
type copTask struct {
    …
    //
    batchTaskList []kvproto.Coprocessor.RegionInfo
}
```

When building coprocessor tasks in the `buildCopTasks` function, try to fill the `batchTaskList` if
necessary.The steps are:
1. Creating a map to record `store address => *copTask`.If store batch is enabled, tasks would be appended
to existing `copTask` when the store address is the same.
2. Split the ranges according to the region information as usual. After this, all the tasks correspond
to a single region.
3. When processing a new `KeyLocation`, try to append it as the batch task to the existing coprocessor task 
if possible.

The coprocessor client just sends the tasks as usual, the `Coprocessor` request is still a unary RPC 
request though it may be batched. When handling `CopResponse`, if the batch path is enabled and 

> there are region errors or other errors processing batch tasks, rescheduling the cop tasks or 

Reviewer 4: How does the "rescheduling" work? Sending all the cop-tasks related to a store again?

Author: Yes.
